---
layout: post
title: Set Windows Timezone via Location Services
image: /assets/img/blog/clocktower.jpg
description: >
  It's always reg keys
tags: [tips, powershell, windows, devops]
---

This post aims to help those of you trying to set the Windows time zone without
relying on DHCP options or similar solutions. Set the registry values
below **then restart** for Windows to update a systems' timezone via NTP
by leveraging Windows Location services.

I've used this solution when provisioning new deployments of Windows hosts. This
can also be used on existing hosts via a configuration management tool such as
SCCM or Group Policy.

Note the current values of these registry keys before making any
changes, in case you want to revert these changes once Windows time picks up the
new timezone. Making registry changes can cause system instability.
{:.important}

1. HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\tzautoupdate
   - Name: Start
   - Data: 3
   - Type: REG_DWORD
   - Explanation: This is the equivalent of navigating to `Date & Time` in the
     Control Panel and ticking `Set time zone automatically` to on. Changing
     this to `4` will disable this setting.
2. HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\CapabilityAccessManager\ConsentStore\location
   - Name: Value
   - Data: Allow
   - Type: REG_SZ
   - Explanation: Turns on Windows Location Services. Required to determine
     location when setting timezone via NTP.
3. (Optional) HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\W32Time\Parameters
   - Name: Type
   - Data: NTP
   - Type: REG_SZ
   - Explanation: The time service synchronizes from the servers specified in
     the `NtpServer` (below) registry entry.
4. (Optional) HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\W32Time\Parameters
   - Name: NtpServer
   - Data: time.windows.com,0x9
   - Type: REG_SZ
   - Explanation: Space-delimited list of peers from which a computer obtains time stamps.

## Scripted Solution

Run the following in a PowerShell Window running as administrator **then restart**:

```powershell
Set-ItemProperty HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\tzautoupdate -Name Start -Value 3 -Type DWord
Set-ItemProperty HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\CapabilityAccessManager\ConsentStore\location -Name Value -Value Allow -Type String
Set-ItemProperty HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\W32Time\Parameters -Name Type -Value NTP -Type String
Set-ItemProperty HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\W32Time\Parameters -Name NtpServer -Value 'time.windows.com,0x9' -Type String
```

## Parting Words

Once configured, the registry keys above allow systems to determine timezone via
Windows Location Services, and reach out to NTP to get the correct local time.
For further exploration of Windows time, check out [w32tm.exe](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/networking/windows-time-service/windows-time-service-tools-and-settings) or my [WinTZ PowerShell Module](https://github.com/tseknet/wintz).

Feel free to reach out if you run into any issues, and see related links (below)
for further reading. Hopefully, this post makes your Windows time issues a thing
of the past ⌛

## Related Links

- [Windows Time service tools and settings](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/networking/windows-time-service/windows-time-service-tools-and-settings)
- [How to configure an authoritative time server in Windows Server](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/configure-authoritative-time-server)
- [W32Time: Sync: SpecialPollInterval may be ignored on workgroup computers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/identity/w32time-sync-specialpollinterval-ignored)